OBSDOCS-1859: Loki Query performance troubleshooting steps (#99687)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/configuration-of-stream-labels-in-loki-operator.adoc

:_newdoc-version: 2.18.4
:_template-generated: 2025-09-25
:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT

[id="configuration-of-stream-labels-in-loki-operator_{context}"]
= Configuration of stream labels in {loki-op}

Configuring which labels the {loki-op} will use as stream labels depends on the data model you are using: ViaQ or OpenTelemetry Protocol (OTLP). 

Both models come with a predefined set of stream labels, for more information, see https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_openshift_logging/latest/html/configuring_logging/opentelemetry-data-model[OpenTelemetry data model].

ViaQ model::

> To configure stream labels for the ViaQ model, add the configuration in the `ClusterLogForwarder` resource.  

Author: added an example

> To configure stream labels for the ViaQ model, add the configuration in the `ClusterLogForwarder` resource.  

Author: done

ViaQ does not support structured metadata.

OTLP model::

> The OLTP model supports structured metadata. All labels that are not specified as stream labels are attached as structured metadata. You can configure stream labels in the tenant config of LokiStack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the OTLP model all labels that are not specified as stream labels are attached as structured metadata. To configure a label as a stream label see LINK TO THE OTLP Docs
```

//
// * configuring/loki-query-performance-troubleshooting.adoc

:_newdoc-version: 2.18.4
:_template-generated: 2025-09-25
:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT

[id="configuration-of-stream-labels-in-loki-operator_{context}"]
= Configuration of stream labels in {loki-op}

Configuring which labels the {loki-op} will use as stream labels depends on the data model you are using: ViaQ or OpenTelemetry Protocol (OTLP). 

Both models come with a predefined set of stream labels, for more information, see link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_openshift_logging/latest/html/configuring_logging/opentelemetry-data-model[OpenTelemetry data model].

ViaQ model::
ViaQ does not support structured metadata.
To configure stream labels for the ViaQ model, add the configuration in the `ClusterLogForwarder` resource. For example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: observability.openshift.io/v1
kind: ClusterLogForwarder
metadata:
  name: instance
  namespace: openshift-logging
spec:
  serviceAccount:
    name: logging-collector
  outputs:
  - name: lokistack-out
    type: lokiStack
    lokiStack:
      target:
        name: logging-loki 
        namespace: openshift-logging
      labelKeys:

>          LokiStackTenantLabelKeys:

Reviewer 2: There is no such attribute as LokiStackTenantLabelKeys 
```
    outputs:
    - name: lokistack
      type: lokiStack
      lokiStack:
        authentication:
          token:
            from: serviceAccount
        labelKeys:
          application:
            ignoreGlobal: <true_or_false>
            labelKeys: <array_of_keys>
          audit:
            ignoreGlobal: <true_or_false>
            labelKeys: <array_of_keys>
          infrastructure:
            ignoreGlobal: <true_or_false>
            labelKeys: <array_of_keys>
```

Author: fixed

Configuring which labels the {loki-op} will use as stream labels depends on the data model you are using: ViaQ or OpenTelemetry Protocol (OTLP). 

Both models come with a predefined set of stream labels, for more information, see link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_openshift_logging/latest/html/configuring_logging/opentelemetry-data-model[OpenTelemetry data model].

ViaQ model::
ViaQ does not support structured metadata.
To configure stream labels for the ViaQ model, add the configuration in the `ClusterLogForwarder` resource. For example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: observability.openshift.io/v1
kind: ClusterLogForwarder
metadata:
  name: instance
  namespace: openshift-logging
spec:
  serviceAccount:
    name: logging-collector
  outputs:
  - name: lokistack-out
    type: lokiStack
    lokiStack:
      target:
        name: logging-loki 
        namespace: openshift-logging
      labelKeys:
        application:
          ignoreGlobal: <true_or_false>
          labelKeys: []
        audit:
          ignoreGlobal: <true_or_false>
          labelKeys: []
        infrastructure:
          ignoreGlobal: <true_or_false>

>           labelKeys: []

Author: done
